HCP Terraform Docs (#2874)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/terraform-docs-common/docs/cloud-docs/api-docs/changelog.mdx

Keep track of changes to the API for HCP Terraform and Terraform Enterprise.

## 2026-07-17

- [Stack configuration summary](/terraform/cloud-docs/api-docs/stacks#list-stack-configuration-summaries) records now include a summary of run statuses in addition to group statuses.

> - [Stack deployment group summary](/terraform/cloud-docs/api-docs/stacks/configurations#list-deployment-group-summaries) records now use the same name for their main inner attribute as the configuration summaries do (`stack-deployment-run-status-summary`). This is wordier than the (now deprecated) `status-counts` alias, but is pleasantly unambiguous.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The main inner attribute for [Stack deployment group summary](/terraform/cloud-docs/api-docs/stacks/configurations#list-deployment-group-summaries) records has been renamed to `stack-deployment-run-status-summary`. The new name matches their configuration summaries attributes. This attribute name replaces the deprecated `status-counts` alias.
```
Mostly trying to edit out the parenthetical, but "wordier" and "pleasantly" fall under [editorializing](https://github.com/hashicorp/web-unified-docs/blob/main/docs/style-guide/general/language.md#do-not-editorialize-about-the-difficulty-or-comprehensibility-of-an-action-or-concept).

> - The Stack configuration list and show endpoints can sideload configuration summaries with `?include=stack_configuration_summary`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Stack configuration endpoints for listing and showing data can now sideload configuration summaries with `?include=stack_configuration_summary`.
```

> - The Stack deployment group list and show-by-id endpoints can sideload group summaries with `?include=stack_deployment_group_summary`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Stack deployment endpoints for listing groups and showing deployments by ID can sideload group summaries with `?include=stack_deployment_group_summary`.
```

Reviewer 2: Again just have to slightly update the "showing deployment by ID" part.
